Recommending probabilistic data structures (#2133)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/ri/memory-optimizations.md

If you were to change any one the values, you should have a process for moving your data from the old datashards to the new data shards (this is generally known as resharding).

#### Tradeoffs

Converting big hashes to small hashes increases the complexity of your code.

### Switch from a set to Bloom filter, cuckoo filter, or HyperLogLog

Suppose you are using large [sets](https://redis.io/docs/data-types/sets/) to solve one of the following problems:

- Count the number of unique observations in a stream.
- Check if an observation already appeared in the stream.
- Find the fraction or the number of observations in the stream that are smaller or larger than a given value.

and you are ready to trade accuracy with speed and memory usage, consider using one of the following probabilistic data structures. You can use:

- [HyperLogLog](https://redis.io/docs/data-types/hyperloglogs/) to estimate the number of unique observations in a set.
- [Bloom filter or cuckoo filter](https://redis.io/docs/stack/bloom/) to check if an observation has already appeared in the stream. False positive matches are possible, but false negatives are not.

> - [t-digest](https://redis.io/docs/stack/bloom/) can be used for estimating the fraction or the number of observations in the stream that are smaller or larger than a given value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [t-digest](https://redis.io/docs/stack/bloom/) to estimate the fraction or the number of observations in the stream that are smaller or larger than a given value.
```

> #### Trade offs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Tradeoffs
```

The only trade off of converting big hashes to small hashes is that it increase the complexity in your code.

> ### Switch from Set to Bloom filter, cuckoo filter, or HyperLogLog

Author: If referring to Redis Set data structure

> If you are using large [sets](https://redis.io/docs/data-types/sets/) to solve one of the following problems:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you are using large [sets](https://redis.io/docs/data-types/sets/) to solve one of the following problems:
```

> - Count the number of unique observations in a stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Count the number of unique observations in a stream.
```

> - Check if an observation already appeared in the stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check if an observation already appeared in the stream.
```

> - Find the fraction or the number of observations in the stream that are smaller or larger than a given value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Find the fraction or the number of observations in the stream that are smaller or larger than a given value.
```

> and you are ready to trade accuracy with speed and memory usage, consider using one of the following probabilistic data structures:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are willing to trade accuracy for speed and memory usage, consider using one of the following probabilistic data structures:
```

- [HyperLogLog](https://redis.io/docs/data-types/hyperloglogs/) can be used for estimating the number of unique observations in a set.
- [Bloom filter or cuckoo filter](https://redis.io/docs/stack/bloom/) can be used for checking if an observation has already appeared in the stream (false positive matches are possible, but false negatives are not).

> - [t-digest](https://redis.io/docs/stack/bloom/) can be used for estimating the percentage or the number of observations in the stream that are smaller or larger than a given value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [t-digest](https://redis.io/docs/stack/bloom/) to estimate the percentage or the number of observations in the stream that are smaller or larger than a given value.
```

Bloom filter and cuckoo filter require [RedisBloom](https://redis.com/modules/redis-bloom/).

#### Trade offs

Following are the trade-offs of using HyperLogLog:

1. The results achieved from HyperLogLog are not 100% accurate; they have an approximate standard error of 0.81%.
1. Hyperloglog only tells you the unique count. It cannot tell you the elements in the set.

For example, if you want to maintain how many unique ipaddresses made an API call today. HyperLogLog tells you
`46966 unique IPs for today`.

But if you want `Show me those 46966 IP Addresses` — it cannot show you. For that, you need to maintain all the IP Addresses in a set.

> ### Switch from Sorted Set to count-min sketch or top-k

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Switch from a sorted set to count-min sketch or top-k
```

Author: I'm referring to Redis Sorted Set data structure.

> If you are using large [sorted sets](https://redis.io/docs/data-types/sorted-sets/) to solve one of the following problems:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you are using large [sorted sets](https://redis.io/docs/data-types/sorted-sets/) to solve one of the following problems:
```

> - Determine the count of a given observation in a stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Determine the count of a given observation in a stream.
```

> - Maintain a list of the most frequent observations in a stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Maintain a list of the most frequent observations in a stream.
```

> and you are ready to trade accuracy with speed and memory usage, consider using one of the following probabilistic data structures:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are willing to trade accuracy for speed and memory usage, consider using one of the following probabilistic data structures. You can use:
```

> - [count-min sketch]() can be used to estimate the count of a given observation in a stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [count-min sketch]() to estimate the count of a given observation in a stream.
```

> - [top-k]() can be used to maintain a list of the _k_ most frequent observations in a stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [top-k]() to maintain a list of the _k_ most frequent observations in a stream.
```
